## Intro

While the app was built with the possibility in mind to adapt it to different local needs and data structures, there is a default structure. While the app tries hard to figure out the correct structure by itself, this may fail. If you use a structure different from the default, you may need to adapt several scripts and keep that in mind when updating and upgrading.

## Default Structure

The default setup install the app into the collection `/db/apps/edoc` of eXist. It contains the [[main HTML files|main-html-files]] and the everything else the app needs to run. It is also home to several subcollections:

    edoc
    |-admin
    |-data
    |-include
    |-modules
    |-resources
    |-rest
    |-schema
    |-templates
    |-(annotations)
    |-(doc)

* `admin`, as the name suggests, contains a few scripts to help admins keep an overview of the projects within this installation (more are to be added in later versions).
* `data` is where the different projects go as subcollections. While it can be empty, it may contain [[start.xml|main-files#start]] and [[wdbmeta.xml|main-files#wdbmeta]] to give a global start page or set global metadata
* `include` contains recent versions of related projects, namely the schema for [[wdbmeta.xml|main-files#wdbmeta]] and a collection of XSL/XQuery functions to deal with strings (extending the normal XPath string functions). **No user changes should be made here.**
* `modules` is where the main global scripts go. **No user changes should be made here.**
* `resources` contains global resources such as default XSLTs, global CSS and JavaScript. **No user changes should be made here.**
* `rest` contains scripts for the RESTful interface. While it is possible for users to change these scripts, it is recommended to instead add scripts instead of changing existing ones.
* `schema` contains schema files for global files other than `wdbmeta.xml` (currently, this is only `config.xml`).
* `templates` contains the rump HTML files used for the templating system. While it is possible to change these files, most changes can better be done by using [[project specific layout and functions|project-specifics]]. The standard files here may be overwritten by an update.
* `annotation` and `doc` are not in use yet but are to be considered 'reserved' as they will be used for internal functions in upcoming releases.

There are several subcollections where no changes are recommended: all changes may be overwritten by an update or upgrade. Instead, use the [[configuration options|global-configuration]] and [[project specific layout and functions|project-specifics]] to adapt functions and layout to your needs.
Should you really require a change in one of these subcollections, consider opening an issue instead so this can be changed to an option that can be set on a project or instance level.

## Non-default structures

### projects as subcollections of `edoc`
It is possible to deviate from the general structure. For instance, one might want to forego the `data` subcollection and store all projects as a subcollection within `edoc` itself. This is possible and should be recognized correctly by all scripts; however, as the main call to view a page is via `view.html` and an ID, this is not strictly necessary. Should you need it e.g. to maintain a stable URL for the source XML/XSLT/etc. files, consider using a reverse proxy instead, especially if you run into problems reading and displaying files.

### different name than `edoc`
It is also possible to name the collection other than `edoc`. In fact, this feature will be put to use in a later release as part of the possibility to have both _publication_ and _workbench_ [[roles|server-roles]] run on the same eXist server. All scripts should be able to figure out the correct name.

### as a subcollection of `db` instead of `/db/apps`
This is possible, too, and should not require additional changes. If you run into problems with the URLs generated by the scripts, automatic resolution of the basic URL might have failed. Consider setting the appropriate option in [[config.xml|global-configuration]]

### port 80 and/or no mention of 'exist' in URL
If you want to have a URL without port 8080 and the 'exist' part, so 'http://example.com/edoc/view.html' rather than 'http://example.com:8080/exist/apps/edoc', you need to adjust eXist's configuration. Depending on the way you deployed eXist, the port configuration can be found e.g. in the Jetty config files. In eXist's main `controller-config.xml` change

    <root pattern=".*" path="/"/>

to

    <root pattern="/edoc" path="xmldb:exist:///db/edoc" />
    <root pattern=".*" path="/"/>

and in `exist-webapp-context.xml`, change

    <Set name="contextPath">/exist</Set>

to

    <Set name="contextPath">/</Set>

### data collection other than `data`
No problems are expected here as the scripts should be able to figure out the correct paths. As with all the other cases, please report any issues you may find.